

This a model from the article:  
**One-dimensional mathematical model of the atrioventricular node including atrio-nodal, nodal, and nodal-his cells.**   
Inada S, Hancox JC, Zhang H, Boyett MR. _Biophys J_ 2009 Oct 21;97(8):2117-27
[19843444](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19843444) ,  
**Abstract:**   
Mathematical models are a repository of knowledge as well as research and
teaching tools. Although action potential models have been developed for most
regions of the heart, there is no model for the atrioventricular node (AVN).
We have developed action potential models for single atrio-nodal, nodal, and
nodal-His cells. The models have the same action potential shapes and
refractoriness as observed in experiments. Using these models, together with
models for the sinoatrial node (SAN) and atrial muscle, we have developed a
one-dimensional (1D) multicellular model including the SAN and AVN. The
multicellular model has slow and fast pathways into the AVN and using it we
have analyzed the rich behavior of the AVN. Under normal conditions, action
potentials were initiated in the SAN center and then propagated through the
atrium and AVN. The relationship between the AVN conduction time and the
timing of a premature stimulus (conduction curve) is consistent with
experimental data. After premature stimulation, atrioventricular nodal reentry
could occur. After slow pathway ablation or block of the L-type Ca(2+)
current, atrioventricular nodal reentry was abolished. During atrial
fibrillation, the AVN limited the number of action potentials transmitted to
the ventricle. In the absence of SAN pacemaking, the inferior nodal extension
acted as the pacemaker. In conclusion, we have developed what we believe is
the first detailed mathematical model of the AVN and it shows the typical
physiological and pathophysiological characteristics of the tissue. The model
can be used as a tool to analyze the complex structure and behavior of the
AVN.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Inada S, Hancox JC, Zhang H, Boyett MR. (2009) -
version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/08bcead2dc05cf2709a598e7f61a6182)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Penny Noble**   
penny.noble@dpag.ox.ac.uk  
The University of Oxford  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not. .  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

